---
title: being in Khanewal
category: personal
date: 2014-09-11
draft: true
---

From -- Septemeber till the --th i was in Khanewal helping my grandparents with winding up the family home they recently sold. I'd stay at nights at a farm house and spend the days at my grandparent's place tpacking things. 

### Here are a few of my lessons

**Being with my grandparents made me understand my mother better**. She is not like any of her relatives here, but she is very much like my grandparents, and i spent a whole week working closely with them. 

**In Khanewal, you end every sentence with 'ji'**. 

- theek ha ji
- keh dia na ji
- kesi baat krtay ho ji
- menay usko bta dia tha ji
- bahir banda aya ha ji
- khotay ki olad ha ji

Ji is the one word that makes the whole sentance respectful, no matter what was said.


**Farm houses are fun**. The place i stayed at was kinda off the grid. But it is a fancy one with peacocks in lush lawns, a modern house with luxury fittings and a whole lot of organic food with desi delicacies every breakfast (lassi) and every dinner (desi murghay). I could have gotten internet but opted not to so i could spend more time taking in the environment. 

**Everyone is nosy**. As far as the people in Khanewal go, everyone is nosy. They'll sit there and gossip, or worse, watch you pack or having a discussion and observe/enjoy like it's a show. And they won't leave when you give them a hint. They won't leave after 10 hints either. They'll leave when they fancy.. which is usually a very long time.

**Don't start saying something unless you want to explain further or repeat it a few more times more loudly**. This means don't joke. Or be sarcastic, because sarcasm when repeated a few times so the other person could understand just makes you look stupid, not clever.

**The best answer is a loud 'theek ha' or 'acha ji'**. 'Acha ji' avoids a lengthy explanation or an argument. It is also the best way to end an argument. At one point you'll be too tired to care what the argument is about or who is saying what, use 'acha ji' to your benefit. This is relevant to the previous point, if you don't feel like you have the energy of explaining things loudly after a whole day of packing, occasionally nod your head and say acha ji. Also, use hand gestures. 

sept 12 - i have swelling and my eyes only half open because of that. my hands are also swollen and look weird because of the swelling and my rings don't fit. that's how i always know i have swelling, when my rnigs suddenly dont fit.